README.md, before:

# The purpose of this repository is to hold the projects of deliverables for my DVOP class.
- The steps I took to complete this setup were as follows:
# Assignment: Version Control and Publishing with Git and GitHub

## Objective
Learn how to use Git for version control and publish your website to a public GitHub repository. This exercise will help you understand the fundamentals of source control management and the basics of continuous integration in DevOps.

## Instructions

### Install Git on Your Local Machine
- **Windows**: Download and install Git from [git-scm.com/downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads).

### Initialize a Git Repository
1. Navigate to the directory containing your website files from the previous assignment.
2. Open a terminal or command prompt in that directory.
3. Initialize a new Git repository by running in your terminal or command window:
   ```sh
   git init

Configure Git with Your Information (if not already configured)

Set your username:
```sh
git config --global user.name "Your Full Name"

Set your email address:
```sh
git config --global user.email "youremail@example.com"

Add Your Files to the Repository
Add all your website files to the staging area:

```sh
git add .
Commit Your Changes
Commit the added files with a meaningful message:

```sh
git commit -m "Initial commit of website files"
Create a GitHub Account (if you don't have one)
Sign up for a free account at github.com.

Create a New Public Repository on GitHub
Click the "+" icon in the top-right corner and select "New repository".

Name your repository (e.g., my-profile-website).

Set the repository to Public.

Do not initialize the repository with a README, .gitignore, or license (since you have already initialized a local repository).

Link Your Local Repository to GitHub
In your terminal, add the GitHub repository as a remote:

```sh
git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/my-profile-website.git
Replace yourusername with your GitHub username.

Push Your Local Repository to GitHub
Push your commits to GitHub:

```sh
git push -u origin master
If you encounter an error regarding branch names, use main instead of master:

```sh
git push -u origin main
Verify Your Repository on GitHub
Visit your GitHub repository URL and confirm that all your files are present.

The only real issue I ran into was some mis-named variables, and following a link to a localhost page that didn't exist.

Commit message:

Updated README with Github Actions info and a blue color update to css.

README.md, after:

# The purpose of this repository is to hold the projects of deliverables for my DVOP class.
- The steps I took to complete this setup were as follows:
# Assignment: Version Control and Publishing with Git and GitHub

## Objective
Learn how to use Git for version control and publish your website to a public GitHub repository. This exercise will help you understand the fundamentals of source control management and the basics of continuous integration in DevOps.

## Instructions

### Install Git on Your Local Machine
- **Windows**: Download and install Git from [git-scm.com/downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads).

### Initialize a Git Repository
1. Navigate to the directory containing your website files from the previous assignment.
2. Open a terminal or command prompt in that directory.
3. Initialize a new Git repository by running in your terminal or command window:
   ```sh
   git init

### Configure Git with Your Information (already configured)

Add Your Files to the Repository
Add all your website files to the staging area:

```sh
git add .
Commit Your Changes
Commit the added files with a meaningful message:

```sh
git commit -m "Initial commit of website files"
Create a GitHub Account (if you don't have one)
Sign up for a free account at github.com.

Create a New Public Repository on GitHub
Click the "+" icon in the top-right corner and select "New repository".

Name your repository (e.g., my-profile-website).

Set the repository to Public.

Do not initialize the repository with a README, .gitignore, or license (since you have already initialized a local repository).

Link Your Local Repository to GitHub
In your terminal, add the GitHub repository as a remote:

```sh
git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/my-profile-website.git
Replace yourusername with your GitHub username.

Push Your Local Repository to GitHub
Push your commits to GitHub:

```sh
git push -u origin master
If you encounter an error regarding branch names, use main instead of master:

```sh
git push -u origin main
Verify Your Repository on GitHub
Visit your GitHub repository URL and confirm that all your files are present.

The only real issue I ran into was some mis-named variables, and following a link to a localhost page that didn't exist.


## Assignment: Using Github Actions

Document the steps you took to set up the GitHub Actions workflow.
The next step was to set up a Github Actions pipeline. 
On the repository page, disabled the automatic Github Pages Publishing by changing the Pages source to Github Actions.
In my local copy of the repository, I made a new directory called `.github/workflows`, and created a `deploy.yml` file, filled with the provided workflow content.
I did not need to modify the content due to using all defaults so far.
I then pushed the changes with:
``git commit -a -m "Adjusted CSS for background color and contact text color."``
To test that everything worked correctly, I did another change to the colors of the page, then used the source control features of Visual Studio Code to commit again.

The only issue I ran into was trying to navigate the `git commit` documentation to find what options would allow for adding and adding a message.

To deploy, you can either do a `git push` to master, or run it manually from the Github Actions tab of the repository.
